+++
title = 2022-11-14
date = 2022-11-14
tags = ["journal"]
draft = false
+++

-   2022-11-14 ◦ [GitHub - aleixrodriala/wa-tunnel: Tunneling Internet traffic over Whatsapp](https://github.com/aleixrodriala/wa-tunnel)
-   2022-11-14 ◦ [Cloud-Native Is about Culture, Not Containers](https://www.infoq.com/articles/cloud-native-culture)

    > "The benefits of a microservices architecture will not be realised if releases involve heavy ceremony, are infrequent, and if all microservices have to be released at the same time"

    <!--quoteend-->

    > "Sometimes I see Cloud-native used just as a way of saying “we’re developing modern software”: “We're going to use best practices; it's going to be observable; it's going to be robust; we’re going to release often and automate everything; in short, we're going to take everything we've learned over the last 20 years and develop software that way, and that's what makes it Cloud-native”. In this definition, cloud is just a given - of course it’s on cloud, because we’re developing this in 2021"

    <!--quoteend-->

    > "Actually, no. It's not a competition to see how many containers you can have. Containers are great, but the number of containers you have should be tuned to your needs."

    <!--quoteend-->

    > "He says, "If they start talking about Netflix and they just keep talking about Netflix, and they never mention coherence, and they never mention coupling, then probably they're not really doing it for the right reasons.""

    <!--quoteend-->

    > "Cloud-native spaghetti. I always feel slightly panicked when I look at the communication diagram for the Netflix microservices. I'm sure they know what they're doing, and they've got it figured out, but to my eyes, it looks exactly like spaghetti. Making that work needs a lot of really solid engineering and specialised skills. If you don't have that specialisation, then you end up in a messy situation."

    <!--quoteend-->

    > "Sadly, decoupling doesn't come for free. It certainly doesn't magically happen just because you distributed things. All that happens when you distribute things is that you have two problems instead of one."

    <!--quoteend-->

    > "I talk to a lot of customers, and they'll say, "We have a CI/CD." The ‘a’ sets off alarm bells, because CI/CD, should not be a tool you buy, put on a server, and admire, saying "there's CI/CD." CD/CD is something that you have to be doing. The letters stand for continuous integration and continuous deployment or delivery. Continuous in this context means “integrating really often” and “deploying really often,”, and if you're not doing that, then it's simply not continuous."

    <!--quoteend-->

    > "Peter Drucker, the great management consultant, said “There is nothing so useless as doing efficiently that which should not be done at all.” Efficiently creating Kubernetes clusters with no value, that's not good."

    <!--quoteend-->

    > "Make releases deeply boring."
