+++
title = "2022-09-07"
date = 2022-09-07
tags = ["journal"]
draft = false
+++

-   2022-09-07 ◦ [Secure microservices with Kong and Ory](https://dev.to/gen1us2k/secure-microservices-with-kong-and-ory-3j8l)
    -   use of [ory](https://github.com/ory) and [Kong](https://github.com/Kong/kong)
-   2022-09-07 ◦ [Layered Architectures in Go](https://dev.to/codypotter/layered-architectures-in-go-3cg8)
    -   on [Layered Architecture]({{< relref "../topics/layered_architecture.md" >}})

        > 1 Layered packages must **only import their immediate child or any neutral packages**. The
        > compiler's import cycle detection will help to enforce this. It's up to you to avoid
        > "skipping a layer" by calling a method from a layer 2 steps down, for example. Following
        > this principle will make testing easier (more on this later). This principle **aligns with
        > the Law of Demeter**, i.e. "Only talk to your immediate friends".
        >
        > Global shared variables are not welcome in layered packages.
        >
        > 3 Layer implementations (structs) should have an interface that describes its functionality
        > to the layer above. This interface can be defined in the layer itself or the parent
        > layer. Whatever makes the most intuitive sense to you.
        >
        > 4 **Layered packages** should have a **New() function** that creates and configures a new instance
        > of the component that satisfies the interface described in principle 3. Principles 3 and
        > 4 correlate to a popular go-ism "accept interfaces, return structs."

    -   Netral Packages

        > A neutral package is a go package that isn't part of our layered design. A
        > neutral package can follow its **own design rules**. A neutral package **may not
        > import a layered package nor any neutral packages** (Libraries are fine of
        > course). Need to import another neutral package? It’s likely those packages
        > should be joined.
-   2022-09-07 ◦ [The Serverless API Developer Platform - WunderGraph](https://wundergraph.com/)
-   [Ep. 212: The Productivity Dragon Returns on Player FM](https://player.fm/1BSEKze)
    -   Knowledge work cannot be compared to "industrial work" with regards to the hours we spend working: knowledge workers do not sit at the assembly line and are expected to do x hours within a time frame.
    -   Check-out [wired article](https://www.wired.com/story/four-day-week-burnout/?utm_brand=wired&utm_social-type=owned&mbid=social_twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter)
    -   Many companies (but also governments) around the the world explore the benefits of the 4day work week. The amount of work that has to be done will still won't change. There must be pre-difened protocolul and agreements where knowledge is workers are not supposed to re-orragnize and prioritise every thing is thrown on their plate. Instead focus on one thing (deep work) and chose the next thingy accordingly to priorities and your manager need.
    -   2022-09-07 ◦ [The 4-Day Week Is Flawed. Workers Still Want It | WIRED](https://www.wired.com/story/four-day-week-burnout/?utm_brand=wired&utm_social-type=owned&mbid=social_twitter&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter)

        > Four-day workweeks are having a moment, thanks to widely publicized **trials launched in
        > several countries in the past few months**, alongside companies marking the switch with
        > splashy announcements. WIRED spoke to 15 workers at six tech companies that have adopted a
        > shortened week. **Employees generally approved; some saw it as a mixed blessing, while others
        > considered it “a godsend.”** This is despite the fact that the precise interpretation of
        > “four-day workweek” seems to vary; some companies stick to 40 hours; many use a 32-hour
        > week, but all **insist** that the same amount of **work—at a minimum—must get done**.

        <!--quoteend-->

        >    Last summer, US Representative Mark
        >     Takano (D-California) introduced legislation to shrink the workweek to 32 hours without
        > sacrificing pay, ahead of a trial of the four-day week in the US and Canada in April. In
        > Europe, an Irish trial of the four-day week kicked off this week, to be followed by one in
        > the UK in June. Eighty-six percent of Icelanders have already moved to shorter hours, or
        > gained the right to negotiate for them, after a large study found that a shorter workweek
        > improved well-being, stress, and burnout without sacrificing productivity.

        <!--quoteend-->

        > Andrew Barnes, cofounder of the nonprofit **4 Day Week Global**, says the measure is “not about
        > work-life balance. **This is a very sensible, rational business practice that improves your
        > productivity and profitability by giving your staff more time off**.” Barnes’ organization,
        > which is working with university researchers to test the four-day week across different
        > industries, promotes the **100/80/100 model: 100 percent productivity in 80 percent of the
        > time with 100 percent pay**. Managers’ biggest contribution tends to be slashing the number
        > and length of meetings. “Could this meeting be an email?” was a popular refrain among the
        > employees WIRED spoke to.
        >
        > But when you **squeeze** the same **amount of work** (or more) into less time, work **intensifies**.
        >
        > Few shed a tear for bygone meetings; adherents of agile software development have long
        > complained that they got in the way of the focused time they needed to code. “I don't like
        > to get interrupted from work unless the house is on fire,” said one Bolt engineer.
        >
        > When work is squeezed into four days, the human interactions that fill the interstitial
        > time can suffer. “There wasn’t time for banter,” said one employee whose startup made the
        > switch. Another said that he no longer had “time to daydream at work.”