+++
title = "2022-09-20"
date = 2022-09-20
tags = ["journal"]
draft = false
+++

-   2022-09-20 ◦ [Ep. 211: How To Organize Your Life | Deep Questions With Cal Newport - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FOE8dMGJDz8)

These is the main document how Cal organizes his life:


## Core systems {#core-systems}


### Core documents {#core-documents}


#### Values {#values}

My roles and the values by which I try to live each of them


#### Carrer and personal strategic plans {#carrer-and-personal-strategic-plans}

I have one plan for each of these two parts of life that lays out my current
thoughts, experimental systems, and plans for living them true to my values.
Sometimes these will also link to an extended plan when I have a big enough,
long enough **pursuit** that it might need its own space.


#### Maintenance {#maintenance}

-   I review my values once a week and create a value plan for that week with

notes about what to emphasize and perhaps experimental habits/rules to try out
that week to help keep me closer to my values. Include best practices for
mental health in the value plan.

-   I review my strategic plans and extended plans once a week, preferably when

doing my weekly plan). I can tweak them at any time, but I try to give them
major overhauls roughly once a semester (fall, winter/spring, summer)

-   I sometimes maintain an **idea notebook** and/or **digital idea storage system**

keeping thoughts on values and strategic plans. I should review this in
detail, at the very least, when I do my strategic plan updates.


### Productivity {#productivity}

I deploy **weekly** and **daily** planning.

-   Each week: build a weekly plan based on a review of my strategic plans, my

calendar, my task lists, and my value plan.

-   Each day: Review my weekly and value plans, as well as my calendar. If it's a

weekday, build a time block plan. If not, sketch a looser plan.

I have **clear work shutdowns** with a shutdown complete ritual. Make a rough but
intentional plan for the time that follows the shutdown. I practice **full capture**
of tasks. This includes processing captured tasks during shutdowns.


### Discipline {#discipline}

I maintain in my strategic plan(s) an evolving list of core disciplines
(behaviors, habits, activities) that I follow as strictly as possible to lay a
foundation for a deep life. Sometimes I track my execution of these disciplines
with metrics. Sometimes I take a break from this tracking.