+++
title = 2023-06-13
date = 2023-06-13
tags = ["journal"]
draft = false
+++

-   2023-06-13 ◦ [An architect’s journal -Embracing Simplicity in Software Architecture Diagramming | by Asanka Abeysinghe | May, 2023 | architect2architect](https://blog.architect2architect.com/an-architects-journal-embracing-simplicity-in-software-architecture-diagramming-89aec930c47b)

    -   uses different levels (L0 to Ln) to describe architecture
    -   talks about _cell-based architecture_

    > This discussion has hopefully illuminated the importance of simplicity in our
    > architectural representations. As we venture further into the world of
    > architecture, keep in mind that our **primary mission** is not solely to design
    > systems but to **effectively communicate these designs**. Regardless of the
    > complexity of the system, our challenge lies in maintaining simplicity in
    > understanding. Continue to tune in as we explore further into the nuances of
    > software architecture, and remember: clear, **effective communication is the key
    > to successful architecture**.

-   [Simplicity in Software Architecture](https://dev.to/atornblad/simplicity-in-software-architecture-1k8i)

    > From a security perspective, simple systems are advantageous as they typically
    > have a smaller attack surface. Every component in a system, every line of
    > code, represents a potential vulnerability that attackers could exploit. By
    > reducing the complexity, we minimize these potential entry points, making the
    > system inherently more secure. Simplicity also facilitates security reviews
    > and audits as the system is easier to comprehend and scrutinize in detail,
    > ensuring no security loophole goes unnoticed.

    <!--quoteend-->

    > If you don't actively fight for simplicity in software, complexity will win. …and it will suck.
