+++
title = 2023-05-03
date = 2023-05-03
tags = ["journal"]
draft = false
+++

-   2023-05-03 ◦ [How stretching actually changes your muscles - Malachy McHugh - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g1pb2aK2we4&ab_channel=TED-Ed)

    > However, while we often think of stretching a muscle like stretching a rubber
    > band, muscles are actually comprised of various tissue types, which interact
    > to make a complex material. Rubber is elastic, meaning it resists being
    > stretched and then returns to its original shape. But muscle is viscoelastic.
    > This means that, in addition to those elastic qualities, muscle changes under
    > the stress of being stretched

    <!--quoteend-->

    > At the smaller scale, these skeletal muscle fibers are comprised of millions
    > of sarcomeres— the smallest contracting unit of muscle tissue. Sarcomere’s
    > long, fibrous proteins can relax to elongate muscle fibers or they can
    > contract to shorten them— pulling on tendons and protective tissue to create
    > the force propelling our athlete’s body.

    <!--quoteend-->

    > Unlike a rubber band, this muscle’s resistance to stretching decreases with
    > each 30 second stretch, allowing our athlete to continually elongate his
    > hamstring. And this improved flexibility likely decreases the chance of
    > incurring certain muscle injuries. But due to muscle’s elastic properties,
    > this effect will be gone in just 10 minutes without further activity.

    <!--quoteend-->

    > For skeletal muscles, improved flexibility comes from additional sarcomeres,
    > which allow you to maintain strength at even greater lengths. Sarcomeres are
    > added and subtracted to muscles depending on how frequently they’re used, so
    > improving overall flexibility requires a comprehensive stretching regimen. Plus,
    > you need to stretch often— very often.

-   2023-05-03 ◦ [The friendship recession | Richard Reeves - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VpOan0hqdNA&ab_channel=BigThink) ([The Lonely Century]({{< relref "../books/the_lonely_century.md" >}}))
    -   talks about friendship recession

        > There's also a lot of emphasis on work and careers, what some scholars call
        > 'workism,' which is a sense that your identity is so what wrapped up in your
        > work that you don't have as much energy and time left over for friends.

        <!--quoteend-->

        > Today, 15% of young men say that they don't have a close friend. That was just
        > 3% back in the 1990s. And so, we're seeing a fivefold increase in the number of
        > men have no close friends. Back in 1990, almost half of young men, 45% said that
        > if they had to turn to someone in a time of trouble, it would be to a close
        > friend. But now that's dropped to about 22%.

        <!--quoteend-->

        > The pandemic has been a sort of stress test for our friendship networks.
        > Interestingly there, we see that it's women who've been most affected: with
        > more than half of women saying they've lost touch with at least some of their
        > friends. I think that's because female friendships are more based on physical
        > relationships on face-to-face time, whereas male friendships tend to be more
        > mediated perhaps through activities or technology. W

        <!--quoteend-->

        > A key lesson that we learn is that friendships don't form themselves.
        > Friendship is not a flower that just blooms all on its own. It's more like a
        > woodworking project that you have to carve out and continue to work on.

        <!--quoteend-->

        > And I think as we get older, there's sometimes a sense of shame that comes
        > along with not having enough friends and actually saying, "I need a friend,"
        > is maybe one of the hardest sentences that any human being can utter.
