+++
title = 2023-05-17
date = 2023-05-17
tags = ["journal"]
draft = false
+++

-   2023-05-17 ◦ [Version 2 of my solar-powered, ePaper digital photo frame - Plotting The Curiosity Vector](https://www.jamez.it/blog/2023/05/16/version-2-of-my-solar-powered-epaper-digital-photo-frame/)
-   2023-05-17 ◦ [Most Managers Have No Clue What Programmers Actually Do - DEV Community](https://dev.to/bytebodger/most-managers-have-no-clue-what-we-actually-do-k07)

    > &gt; One day I had meetings scheduled from 9AM-10AM, 11AM-Noon, 1PM-2PM, and
    >   3PM-4PM. The next day, my director asked for an account of the team's
    >   progress from the previous day. After I brought him up to speed on what had
    >   been completed (and not completed), he asked me, "But what did you program
    >   yesterday??" I bluntly told him that I didn't get any programming done in
    >   the previous day, because I had four meetings scheduled. He then asked me,
    >   "But those meetings only took four hours. Why didn't you get any coding done
    >   in the other four hours?"

    <!--quoteend-->

    > My director had no understanding of the fact that, with four meetings
    > throughout the day, occurring every-other-hour, I had virtually no time to
    > sit down and actually write code. Each meeting on my schedule required at
    > least some degree of "prep work". And each meeting spawned a series of
    > "take-aways" and follow-on communications that I needed to handle directly
    > afterward. This meant that, at most, I had maybe 30 minutes to do any real
    > coding between meetings - and for any kinda serious mental work, I just
    > wasn't able to parachute into the middle of a task for 30 minutes and get
    > anything meaningful accomplished.

    <!--quoteend-->

    > Last year when I was working for Amazon, I had a dev manager who used to
    > code. After I'd worked there for several months, he somehow got the
    > impression that I was "falling behind". This was despite the fact that, by
    > numerous metrics (e.g., commits, PRs, completed tasks, LoC), was actually
    > doing several times more work than anyone else on the team.

> When you're sitting in someone's office, your dev manager may have little
> understanding of exactly what you're doing at any point in time. But there's
> an incredibly basic (and... ignorant) "metric" that many in-person managers
> use to "gauge" your efforts: They simple see you working. As ridiculous as
> that sounds, the sad truth is that, for many managers, their primary "metric"
> for gauging your productivity is simply that they can walk by your desk and
> see that you're... umm, working? They may not be tied into the actual work
> you're doing. But at an extremely basic level, they can look up from their
> own desk and see that you're... typing? Coding?? Doing something???
