+++
title = 2023-12-21
author = ["Victor Dorneanu"]
date = 2023-12-21
tags = ["journal"]
draft = false
+++

-   <https://www.scotthyoung.com/blog/2023/12/19/10-best-books-read-in-2023/>
    1.  ****Why Knowledge Matters by E.D. Hirsch****
        Argues that a focus on skills over knowledge in education is misguided and undermines children's learning.

    2.  ****Psych by Paul Bloom****
        Provides a survey of the field of psychology, offering a historical perspective and understanding of the discipline.

    3.  ****How We Reason by Philip Johnson-Laird****
        Explores the concept of reasoning through mental models and the implications for understanding how we think.

    4.  ****Creativity in Science by Dean Simonton****
        Surveys theories of creativity and offers a model for how creativity works, based on historical data of creative individuals.

    5.  ****Cognitive Behavior Therapy by Judith Beck****
        Explores cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and the debate on the active ingredient of its effectiveness.

    6.  ****How Languages are Learned by Patsy Lightbown and Nina Spada****
        Examines second language acquisition (SLA) and the challenges of learning a foreign language.

    7.  ****The Science of Learning Physics by José Mestre and Jennifer Docktor****
        Reviews the literature on learning physics and addresses the difficulties students face in thinking like physicists.

    8.  ****The Republic by Plato****
        A classic philosophical work that discusses topics like justice, government, and the nature of human beings.

    9.  ****Social Learning Theory by Albert Bandura****
        Explores Bandura's influential theory on social learning and self-efficacy.

    10. ****Beginning to Read by Marilyn Jager Adams****
        Examines the importance of systematic phonics instruction in teaching children how to read.
