+++
title = 2023-05-23
date = 2023-05-23
tags = ["journal"]
draft = false
+++

-   2023-05-23 ◦ [The Open Buddhist University @ A website dedicated to providing free, online courses and bibliographies in Buddhist Studies.](https://buddhistuniversity.net/)
-   2023-05-23 ◦ [I’ve been employed in tech for years, but I’ve almost never worked – Emmanuel Maggiori](https://emaggiori.com/employed-in-tech-for-years-but-almost-never-worked/)

    > I soon realized that the project was overstaffed and most people were
    > pretending to work. And I also realized that was the job I was hired to do; my
    > job was to pretend. If this had been the only time this ever happened to me, I
    > would consider it an anomaly. Unfortunately, this has been the case with almost
    > every tech job I’ve had for years

    <!--quoteend-->

    > The principles behind agile software development are commendable and much more
    > suitable for the job than old-school ideas. So, many organizations have strived
    > to “be agile.” However, they’ve done so by adopting agile “recipes,” which are
    > step-by-step guidelines that are supposed to make a team agile. The most famous
    > one is scrum. The adoption of a recipe results in a box-ticking exercise that
    > makes companies believe they become agile just by strictly abiding by a set of
    > inflexible rules. The effect is the opposite.

    <!--quoteend-->

    > Questioning the agile recipe is seen as heresy. For example, I once suggested
    > that I wasn’t sure all the recurring meetings to catch up were the best use of
    > our time. I was told, “Well, in this company we enjoy teamwork. Don’t you?”

    <!--quoteend-->

    > they’d blindly created the team and started the development of the product
    > because it seemed trendy. When I inquired further, an upper manager told me, “We
    > have decided not to speak with users; we will first build the product we think
    > is right for them and see what they think.” He called it a “fail fast approach,”
    > but I thought it was a “fail for sure” approach. Imagine the level of motivation
    > and productivity in this team.
